Now we'll move on to demographic data set analysis.
Now that you're an expert explorer of EHR data sets,
it's time to ensure we also analyze our data demographically.
With all data and machine learning,
it's important to do this,
but it's especially important in health care.
We need to ensure we have a representative base in many areas in health care.
But imagine if a drug was only tested on people under the age of 35,
and then after it was rolled out,
a side effect was discovered in those over the age of
50 that cause a high rate of fatalities in that group.
With that important piece of information in mind,
it's time to learn how to make sure your data is representative.
So we'll go over later a tool for analyzing demographic bias for a model.
But even before you model the data and produce predictions,
you should look at the input data set,
and see if it is representative of a populations that you will be serving.
This is important to make sure our test data will translate to the general population.
Well, it is not always possible to get a representative data set,
we can check the distributions and see where it might be biased or need balancing.
So let's go back to the Notebook.
We'll be again be using the same heart disease data set,
but this time we will create age buckets for each decade.
For example, 0-10 is an age bucket,
10-20 is the next age bucket.
So here is an example of this age bucket.
Next we will look at the age bins,
and as you can see there is a skew towards
older patients with a center between the 50-60 age group bucket.
Next, let's take a look at the combination of both the age groups and also the gender.
What would you guess the distribution would look like?
Well, if you recall there are a greater number of male patients.
Therefore, female numbers should be lower,
and here's what that output.
Would you expect a similar distribution across ages for female patient?
Yes, we see a similar normal distribution across the age buckets.
For one, we group by gender and age buckets for females,
as well as some slight differences.
However, the key thing is we don't see dramatically different patterns.
Anyhow, this is just a simple analysis in grouping by
different demographic fields can help you
understand the nature of the data set you are looking at.